Titus

Chapter 1
TIT 1:1 Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God’s chosen ones and the knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness,
TIT 1:2 in hope of eternal life, which God, who can’t lie, promised before time began;
TIT 1:3 but in his own time revealed his word in the message with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God our Savior,
TIT 1:4 to Titus, my true child according to a common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior.
TIT 1:5 I left you in Crete for this reason, that you would set in order the things that were lacking and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you—
TIT 1:6 if anyone is blameless, the husband of one wife, having children who believe, who are not accused of loose or unruly behavior.
TIT 1:7 For the overseer must be blameless, as God’s steward, not self-pleasing, not easily angered, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for dishonest gain;
TIT 1:8 but given to hospitality, a lover of good, sober minded, fair, holy, self-controlled,
TIT 1:9 holding to the faithful word which is according to the teaching, that he may be able to exhort in the sound doctrine, and to convict those who contradict him.
TIT 1:10 For there are also many unruly men, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision,
TIT 1:11 whose mouths must be stopped: men who overthrow whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for dishonest gain’s sake.
TIT 1:12 One of them, a prophet of their own, said, “Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and idle gluttons.”
TIT 1:13 This testimony is true. For this cause, reprove them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith,
TIT 1:14 not paying attention to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn away from the truth.
TIT 1:15 To the pure, all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
TIT 1:16 They profess that they know God, but by their deeds they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and unfit for any good work.

Chapter 2
TIT 2:1 But say the things which fit sound doctrine,
TIT 2:2 that older men should be temperate, sensible, sober minded, sound in faith, in love, and in perseverance,
TIT 2:3 and that older women likewise be reverent in behavior, not slanderers nor enslaved to much wine, teachers of that which is good,
TIT 2:4 that they may train the young wives to love their husbands, to love their children,
TIT 2:5 to be sober minded, chaste, workers at home, kind, being in subjection to their own husbands, that God’s word may not be blasphemed.
TIT 2:6 Likewise, exhort the younger men to be sober minded.
TIT 2:7 In all things show yourself an example of good works. In your teaching, show integrity, seriousness, incorruptibility,
TIT 2:8 and soundness of speech that can’t be condemned, that he who opposes you may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say about us.
TIT 2:9 Exhort servants to be in subjection to their own masters and to be well-pleasing in all things, not contradicting,
TIT 2:10 not stealing, but showing all good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things.
TIT 2:11 For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men,
TIT 2:12 instructing us to the intent that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we would live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present age;
TIT 2:13 looking for the blessed hope and appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ,
TIT 2:14 who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good works.
TIT 2:15 Say these things and exhort and reprove with all authority. Let no one despise you.

Chapter 3
TIT 3:1 Remind them to be in subjection to rulers and to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work,
TIT 3:2 to speak evil of no one, not to be contentious, to be gentle, showing all humility toward all men.
TIT 3:3 For we were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.
TIT 3:4 But when the kindness of God our Savior and his love toward mankind appeared,
TIT 3:5 not by works of righteousness which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy, he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit,
TIT 3:6 whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior;
TIT 3:7 that being justified by his grace, we might be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
TIT 3:8 This saying is faithful, and concerning these things I desire that you insist confidently, so that those who have believed God may be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable to men;
TIT 3:9 but shun foolish questionings, genealogies, strife, and disputes about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.
TIT 3:10 Avoid a factious man after a first and second warning,
TIT 3:11 knowing that such a one is perverted and sinful, being self-condemned.
TIT 3:12 When I send Artemas to you, or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me to Nicopolis, for I have determined to winter there.
TIT 3:13 Send Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey speedily, that nothing may be lacking for them.
TIT 3:14 Let our people also learn to maintain good works to meet necessary needs, that they may not be unfruitful.
TIT 3:15 All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.
